QATAKI
======

Qataki is a CLI Identi.ca/StatusNet/Twitter client.

It's a shell script that you can use to read/post notices
from the command line in a simple manner.  Besides that,
with qataki you can: reply to posts; retweet notices;
search for notices.  As you can see there are not fancy
features.  However, if you feel that something useful
lacks, contact me (@chr identica) or play yourself with
the code!

By default Identi.ca and Twitter support is enabled. You
can use a StatusNet site by creating an alias in a
configuration file. More info here:
http://chr.tx0.org/qataki/#StatusNet

It has been tested with bash (used by default) and ksh93,
on NetBSD and Debian.

This is how it looks like:
http://chr.tx0.org/images/qataki.png


DEPENDENCIES
------------

You'll need usual UNIX utilities like sed/awk/grep.
You'll also need curl,[1] elinks,[2] and xmlstarlet.[3]


INSTALLATION
------------

1) Download:

$ wget http://github.com/chr/qataki/blob/master/qataki

2) Make it executable:

$ chmod +x qataki

3) Use it:

$ ./qataki

(you can place it somewhere in your $PATH so you can run
it directly as "qataki", without the leading dot-slash).

For authentication, a .netrc file is used. This file
(located at $HOME/.netrc) has this syntax:

machine identi.ca login YOU password SECRET

Where YOU is your username on identi.ca and SECRET is your
password there.

Read "qataki -h for help.



[1] http://curl.haxx.se/

[2] http://elinks.or.cz/ . This is not, however a "hard"
dependency. If Elinks is not installed on your system,
Lynx will be used. In this latter case, you'll have
problems with accented letters and non-latin alphabet.

[3] http://xmlstar.sourceforge.net/ . Actually, I'll
remove this dependency, as there's no really much need
for it. However, as I'm lazy and have xmlstarlet available,
it's not a priority.


P.S.: Consider the script "alpha".
